# Coding Standards

## Coding style
Whether submitting pull requests to PyroCMS or writing add-ons, it is important to follow a consistent coding style.

PyroCMS currently uses the [CodeIgniter PHP Style Guide](http://codeigniter.com/user_guide/general/styleguide.html) syntax, please take a moment to familiarize yourself with the contents.

## Documentation
Having a good API documentation is a vital requirement for any successful project. When building your module, please take the time to document its code or even write help articles on it (but that is a different story). 

Most of PyroCMS' core components [are documented](http://docs.pyrocms.com/2.1/api/) and addons are actually expected to keep up by at least having each of their files declare the respective package they belong to. Anything can be documented except for views. Classes and functions should be documented using the standard PHPDoc format. 

The actual API Documentation is being generated by [DocBlox](http://www.docblox-project.org/). This gives the ability to reflect the HMVC approach used in building PyroCMS into the actual API documentation. This is how the API Documentation packages are structured in PyroCMS:

* External libraries use their respective packages (none of our business)
* Everything related to PyroCMS is under the *PyroCMS* package.
* Inside the *PyroCMS* package there are two distinct subpackages:
  * *Core*, everything that comes with the PyroCMS release
  * *Addon*, 3rd party modules, themes, etc.
* Each of *Core* & *Addon* have can possibly have the following subpackages:
  * *Controllers*
  * *Models*
  * *Modules*
  * *Libraries*
  * *Plugins* 
  * *Widgets*
* Furthermore *Modules* can have:
  * *Controllers*
  * *Models*
  * *Libraries*
  * *Plugins*
  * *Widgets*

In the PyroCMS distribution you will find a configuration file to actually generate the API Documentation localy and review your work. Remember, you can always refer to the PyroCMS source to see how things are done.